I sought to formulate a data-driven rationale for why the MBTA should invest in electrifying its commuter rail system. After uncovering a report that revealed that the electrification of a New York commuter rail line led to an increase in ridership of well over 100% while cutting travel time by just 9%, I wondered whether there exists a correlation between the percentage of people who take public transportation and the time savings they could expect from taking the train instead of driving. My ultimate objective was to run a regression on the two variables to predict the number of additional MBTA riders as a function of the decrease in travel time brought about by electric trains. To conduct this analysis, I used Journey to Work census data, the Google Maps Distance Matrix API and commuter rail timetables. Surprisingly, the data revealed that there is in fact very little correlation between the two variables, which supports the opposite conclusion that the faster travel times associated with electric trains would not significantly boost MBTA ridership. Moreover, the data indicates that the decrease in travel time brought about by electrification would be significantly lower than expected.

I presented my findings to the Vice Chair of the MBTA Fiscal and Management Control Board, who in turn presented my analysis to the rest of the Board. I also presented the results to the Manager of Long-Range Planning of MassDOT, as well as transportation planners in charge of the upcoming MBTA Rail Vision study (https://www.mbta.com/projects/rail-vision). 

See https://github.com/williamfried/MBTA-Commuter-Rail-Analysis/blob/master/massDOT_presentation.pptx for my final presentation.

Note: This was my first ever data science project and at the time I had very little experience with Python so the code design is quite poor.
